#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass scrreprt
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{listings}
\end_preamble
\options abstracton,dvipsnames
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
customHeadersFooters
enumitem
fixltx2e
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family rmdefault
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures false
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 10
\spacing single
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_title "MARS Manual"
\pdf_author "Thomas Schöbel-Theuer"
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered false
\pdf_bookmarksopen false
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks true
\pdf_pdfborder true
\pdf_colorlinks true
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 3.7cm
\topmargin 2.7cm
\rightmargin 2.8cm
\bottommargin 2.3cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle headings
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
MARS is a block-level storage replication system for long distances / flaky
 networks under GPL.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It is a key component for achieving 
\series bold
geo-redundancy
\series default
 under Linux, for example Disaster Recovery (DR) at datacenter granularity,
 and/or Location Transparency (LT) at VM / LV granularity.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It can help to increase 
\series bold
reliability
\series default
 via Sharding, and to 
\series bold
save cost
\series default
 by optional support for local storage in addition to network storage.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It eases 
\series bold
load balancing
\series default
 and 
\series bold
background migration of data
\series default
, even over long distances.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
MARS runs as a Linux kernel module.
 The sysadmin interface is similar to DRBD, but its internal engine is completel
y different from DRBD: it works with transaction logging, similar to some
 database systems.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Therefore, MARS can provide stronger consistency guarantees.
 In case of network bottlenecks / problems / failures, the secondaries may
 become outdated (reflect an elder state), but will not become inconsistent.
 In contrast to DRBD, MARS preserves the order of write operations even
 when the network is flaky (Anytime Consistency).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The current version of MARS supports k > 2 replicas and works asynchronously.
 Therefore, application performance is completely decoupled from any network
 problems.
 Future versions are planned to also support synchronous or near-synchronous
 modes.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
MARS supports a new method for building Cloud Storage / Software Defined
 Storage, called 
\series bold
LV Football
\series default
.
 It comes with some automation scripts, enabling a similar functionality
 than Kubernetes, but devoted to stateful LVs over 
\series bold
virtual LVM pools
\series default
 in the petabytes range.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
MARS is in production since 2014, and on thousands of Linux servers replicating
 petabytes of data.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
